ost people have heard that investing is the best  way to accumulate wealth. Investment is the act of  
redirecting resources from being consumed today  so that they may create benefits in the future.  
More precisely, investment is the use of assets to  earn income or profit. The wealthiest individuals  
in the world became wealthy through successful  investment of their assets. Let’s go over the  
basics regarding common ways that people invest. Stocks and bonds are two of the most common forms  
of investment. A stock is a representation  of ownership in a public company. They can  
be risky to purchase as their prices can change  dramatically and unpredictably, but often the  
bigger the risk, the bigger the potential reward.  There are two ways for stockholders to make money:  
dividends and capital gains. Dividends are  profits paid out four times a year to all  
shareholders. The size of the dividend depends  on the profit of the company. Capital gains are  
when a stockholder simply sells their stock for  more than they originally paid for it. If the  
stockholder made a profit, it’s a capital gain.  If they lost money, it’s a capital loss. A market  
for buying and selling stock is called a stock  exchange. Brokerage firms are businesses that  
help stockholders trade stocks and sometimes  even deal out stocks. These days, anyone can  
easily access the stock exchange on their phone  through apps that offer brokerage services. 
A bond is essentially an IOU issued by a  corporation or by some level of government.  
When you buy a bond, you are loaning money  in return for a guaranteed payout at a later  
date. Bonds are usually a more stable investment  than stocks. There are three components of bonds:  
their coupon rate, maturity date, and  par value amount. The coupon rate is  
the interest rate that a bond issuer will  pay to the bondholder. The time at which  
payment to a bondholder is due is called  the bond’s maturity. A bond’s par value,  
assigned by whoever issues the bond, is the  amount to be paid to the bondholder at maturity. 
In order for investment to take place, an  economy first must have a financial system,  
which is the network of structures and mechanisms  that allows the transfer of money between savers  
and borrowers. As we learned in the previous  tutorial, when people save their money,  
they often are actually lending funds to others.  Savers and borrowers may be linked directly  
through what’s known as financial intermediaries.  Financial intermediaries are institutions that  
help move funds from savers to borrowers.  They include banks, which we learned about  
in the previous tutorial, but they also include  mutual funds, hedge funds, and pension funds. 
A mutual fund pools the savings of many  individuals and invests this money in a variety  
of stocks, bonds, and other financial assets. A  hedge fund is a private investment organization  
that employs risky strategies that can often  make huge profits for investors. In general,  
these investors already have tremendous  wealth and are knowledgeable about investing. 
A pension fund is income that some retirees  receive after working a certain number of  
years or reaching a certain age. In some cases,  injuries may also qualify a working person for  
certain pension benefits. Employers set up  pension funds by collecting deposits, and  
pension fund managers then invest those deposits  in stocks, bonds, and other financial assets. 
In general, the best way to invest your money is  to put it in a diverse range of securities. This  
reduces risk, especially when stock or bond  prices drop. Therefore, people often invest  
some of their money in more risky ventures but  invest the rest in more stable funds. It is also  
better to invest money earlier in life. This  is because one of the greatest assets is time.  
The longer your money is invested in securities,  the more it will grow. Put another way, you make  
more money on the money your money already makes. When investing money, it’s important to consider  
the two types of interest, simple and compound.  Simple interest is based on the principal amount  
of a loan or deposit. Compound interest is based  on the principal amount and the interest that  
accumulates on it in every period. Thus, it can  be regarded as “interest on interest.” Simple  
interest is only calculated on the principal  amount of a loan or deposit. The formula looks  
like this: A = P(1 + rt) where A is the final  amount, P is the initial principal balance,  
r is the annual interest rate, and t is  time, usually in years. Compound interest  
is calculated based on both the principal and  interest accrued. The formula looks like this:  
A = P(1 + r/n)nt where A is the final amount,  P is the initial principal balance, r is the  
interest rate, n is the number of times interest  is applied per time period, usually in years,  
and t is the number of periods elapsed. Let’s look at an example. Say you loaned  
$10,000 to a friend and they agreed to  pay it back in five years with an annual  
simple interest rate of 5%. After five years, the  amount of interest you would get would be $2,500,  
as the total amount they would repay would be  $12,500, which is the original principal plus  
the interest. Now say you loaned $10,000 to a  friend and they agreed to pay it back in five  
years with an annual compound interest rate of  5%. Because you really want to make some money,  
you also make sure that interest is compounded  monthly, or 12 times a year. After five years,  
the amount of interest you would get would now  be $2,833.59, and your friend would have repaid  
you a total of $12,833.59. This example serves to  illustrate that compound interest is far superior  
to simple interest when investing your money. Whenever consumers evaluate an investment,  
they must balance the risks involved with the  rewards they expect to gain from the investment.  
In general, the higher the potential return  on an investment, the riskier that investment  
is. In the next tutorial, we will look at one of  the riskiest ways to borrow money, credit cards.
The Basics of Investing (Stoc