Financial Advice: Money lessons you need to know in retirement
- Once you're earning years are over
and you've built your nest egg for retirement
you need to be smart about so many decisions.
- Now we're not financial planners
and we make that very clear with everyone,
but we are retired
and we do spend time making sure we're doing
the right thing financially with our own money
- Because bad financial habits
and lack of knowledge can actually ruin your retirement.
- We have a couple, they're good friends
and he felt like he knew what to do with the marketplace
with his investments and he clearly didn't
because he had his money in stocks when it
when they went down and he pulled it
out and put it into cash when it went up.
So for eight years he was on the wrong side
of every single one of the stock market moves.
And because of that he lost a significant amount
of his retirement assets.
- And that's really difficult.
And today we find that they're struggling.
Many of their dreams have vanished
and they both actually had to go back to work.
Now there's nothing wrong with work
but it's just not what they had planned.
- So we can't emphasize enough right out of the shoot.
Having a financial planner is so important
because it gives you a plan, it gives you a vision
it gives you an idea, but it also does this
which I think is most important.
It takes the emotion out of the marketplace
which can get the best of you.
Think you know what's gonna happen
at a new presidential election.
And frankly you don't.
- That's right.
- So let the experts help you with that.
- Because we don't want to have what happened
to them happen to you today.
We wanna share some practical ideas that may maintain
or even improve your financial situation.
- And again, the number one lesson today is don't
manage your money without a financial planner.
Don't manage your money without a financial planner
And we don't mean a stockbroker.
What we mean is someone who has a fiduciary
responsibility to make recommendations
that are are really good for you,
not good for them.
- And really they talk
to you about things like investment strategies.
And you might say, well sure they do
but they also talk to you about withdraw strategies, right?
How much should you be withdrawing each year
in order to preserve your nest day?
- How much do you need each month?
And then they pull it
from the smartest place it needs to come
from using tools like tax lost harvesting.
You can't just take money out of a stock 'cause you want to
'cause you're gonna have capital gains.
- Right, right.
And we're not a big fan of multiple planners
but we'll leave that part up to you.
So the first one is make sure you get a financial planner
somebody you're comfortable with.
The second is keep your emergency fund intact.
Keep your emergency fund intact no matter what
Kind of no matter what,
you need to have emergency savings
that doesn't disappear when you retire.
It's more important than ever
to have accessible cash set aside
for any type of emergency.
- So two, three, four months of expenses in a cash account.
That way your financial planner can invest the rest
of your money and always be thinking
about you're gonna need more money in 60 days.
So what can they put you into short term?
So you wanna have this cash account
so you can cover any kind of emergency expenses
or just if you wanna lease stuff
in the market a little bit longer,
you've got some cash.
- Or even if you have any big purchases
that are coming down the pipe.
- That's true.
- Making sure your financial planner knows
that you're ready for that.
So the second thing is the emergency fund.
- Now here's another way that you can get into trouble
or you also a way to dig yourself out of trouble.
Make sure your luxuries don't become a burden
You wanna take a look at all your luxuries
and make sure that they haven't become a burden.
Because frankly that happened to us.
We both had jobs, we were both working,
gosh, 15 years ago.
We bought our first boat
and we bought four boats over the next 15 years.
But we could afford it because we both were working
we both had money and it was our floating vacation home
so to speak.
I call the last one that we had a lifestyle boat.
'Cause we went away on that one a lot.
And it was a little bit larger,
but once we retired all of a sudden it was like
well we don't really want to go out on it.
The weather isn't good.
We'd rather stay home.
We'd rather be with friends.
- Well the price of diesel or the price of gas,
the price of storage, the price of hauling,
the price of all of those things have to be factored
in when you have a fixed income.
- Yeah.
- And we didn't have the same earning capacity
to kind of keep up with the luxury.
So we stopped using it and then it became a burden.
Like why aren't we using it?
- And it was a year ago now that we decided to sell it.
And it's sold within a month.
'Cause we kept really good care of it.
But the thing is, if you have luxuries
it's really important to take a look at them
and say that's something we are really getting a lot
of satisfaction on 'em 'cause it's gonna cost you money.
- Well, there are also luxuries that you have
and then there's luxuries you provide for others.
Right?
So we have six children
and we were providing cell phones,
homeowners insurance,
auto insurance, airline tickets for them.
And there's significant others or partners
and that was all fine while we were dual income.
But as they aged and as we aged
and as we came into a fixed income place
we needed to start peeling some away
and giving those responsibilities back to them.
- And they can afford it.
They all have great jobs
and if they're ever stuck we'll help them.
- But it was a luxury to be able to do that for 'em.
But they're all-
- But frankly it also gave us a lot of satisfaction
a lot of fulfillment to be able to help them.
So it was hard for us to pivot to,
in our mind,
take these things away from the kids.
But at some point they've gotta be
to stand on their own two feet.
- Right and we needed to reduce the support.
- So we sold the boat,
we paid off two car loans,
we came to an agreement with the kids.
And slowly weaning them off of some of these things
we've always paid for.
Because they can afford it
and they're fine with it.
They even say it's kind of silly
that you're paying my cell phone bill.
So it's another cord to cut that it's hard to do.
But we wanna encourage you to do it.
- Yeah so that was the third one.
The fourth one is really trying to figure out
Learn to live a little below your means
how to live a little below your means.
And that's new for us for our entire career
as our income went up,
our living style, and our cost of living,
and everything we did went up with it.
Hard work, learning and growing.
We were climbing the corporate ladder.
Mark was building his business.
It was easy to have your lifestyle kind of follow you.
- Yeah and we both come from humble beginnings
and we improved our lifestyle as we went up.
But then it sort of...
When you retire you have to think,
okay well my income's not gonna keep going up.
As a matter of fact it's gonna go down.
So how do we wanna live?
What are some things we can do to live
within our means and even underneath our means.
- Right and there were a couple things we had to agree to.
So I call it shopping for sport, right?
- You're good at that.
- There's no more
- You're better at that than pickle ball.
- Kind of just opening up and saying,
"Oh you know, look what just came into my feed.
I'll take a look at those earrings or that bracelet
or those dresses or those sunglasses."
- Well think about it.
- I kind of have a little bit of a sunglass addiction.
- Yeah me too.
- We agreed that we would do no more shopping for sport.
Was one of the things. - Instagram, Amazon,
it's so easy to spend money today
and you get hooked on this new gadget.
- And you don't even leave your house.
- Don't even leave your house.
Keeping up with the Jones'
that's not necessary anymore.
And who are the Jones' anyway today?
It's other retirees.
We're not taking on any more debt.
We've paid down most of our debt.
Again, we have a financial planner
and we have a more modest wardrobe.
I mean our fanciest clothes are for our YouTube channel.
- Right and we're eating out less,
- We're eating out less.
- I think we made the agreement that for health
and economic reasons we would eat out less.
So living below your means is something you can control
and it's something that you can put some time
and intention into.
- So another really important thing to get to know
is everything about social security.
Learn everything about social security (for your age in your state)
And we don't know that much about it.
So our financial planner and our accountant
has said you don't need to take it yet.
And that's kind of all we're thinking about at this point.
They'll let us know when it makes sense
and when it makes sense, it'll make sense.
But you have to really understand
or have someone coaching you on what's important
because everyone's financial situation is different.
- Yeah and I really believe the more you know about it
the better off you'll be.
Even if you do your own investigation.
Social security was not meant to
be your primary source of income as you age.
In America it was meant to be a supplemental income.
So you have to understand the amounts you can get
at what future ages and can you still work
and does your state tax it or not?
There's a lot of rules around social security
and my recommendation would be just get to know your rules
in your state around your age.
Just for the knowledge
- I don't know, but I think there's a certain amount
you can't earn a certain amount
of money and still get social security.
I don't really know,
but you have to know.
I guess that's the point.
You really need to know everything
about social security.
Check with your accountant and your financial planner.
- Right.
Here's a big one for us and it should be
Define your happiness
for you too I think.
Money will never buy you happiness.
And we've heard that like our whole lives.
And so we actually did a little bit of research
and you know what really defines happiness for us?
And we came across this quote
and part of it is from Warren Buffet, but it says,
"We wanna do what we want when we want
with whom we want for as long as we want."
And that to us will define our happiness.
Now some of what you do will require money
but it's not all about buying stuff and things.
Most of what we do for happiness now is experiences.
- I would think that for us,
and tell me if you agree
but the something we just spent money on
is giving us more happiness now
for a very low value than anything else.
I remember paying for ever.
You know what it is?
- Your pickle ball racket.
- Pickle ball.
So we joined the YMCA
for like $80 a month for the family.
We bought a pickle ball racket
for a hundred bucks and six balls for $18.
And we're getting like five
or six hours of use outta that each week.
- Yeah. - That's happiness.
That really is making us happy.
It's not a new car, it's not a new set of golf clubs.
It's not what we're used
to thinking that would create happiness.
- And we're also looking at vacations differently, right?
Now that we have the full seven days to ourselves
many vacations to visit friends or family,
they become Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
versus the high traffic weekend,
Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
So mini vacations, beach days,
lunch dates. - Yeah.
Renting a boat for a day.
Yeah, we're doing that with company comes
we're renting pontoon boats now
for the day to take companies out.
It's $300 for a day.
Which in one respect sounds like a lot
but it's a lot cheaper than owning a boat.
- Right that's true.
- So we still get out on the water.
Now look, you clearly need money in retirement.
We all can agree on that.
But how much do you need and how much is enough?
You've gotta figure out how much you have
how much you can pull out each month
and how long it's gonna last.
Those are key questions you need to work through
with your planner and your account.
- Yep and paying attention to some of these things
that we just shared will help guide you
and keep you out of trouble.
Now we hope you enjoyed this video
and if you did,
you're gonna like this next one called
"The Truth About Early Retirement.
What They Don't Tell You."
It's one of our most popular videos
and we're not getting any younger
so why steal these fabulous years from ourselves,
our family, and our friends?
Watch this one next.
Retirement Financial Advice: 